[Music]
hello it's ruby and
today i'm going to be filming another
victorian themed video
in this one as you can tell from the
title i'm going to be eating like a
victorian child for the weekend
the diets of victorian children change
depending on age so you had one diet
when you had all your milk teeth and
when you lost these you went on to
another diet so teeth were kind of used
to
distinguish between the different stages
of childhood which is obviously really
cool when we think about peter pan who
is known for having all of his milk
teeth still before we get started i'm
going to give you some quick
introductory information
so there are three meals a day breakfast
at 8 o'clock dinner at 1pm
and tea at 4 or 5 p.m victorian children
were not supposed to snack between meals
but one article from castel's family
magazine does say that it's permissible
for children to snack between breakfast
and dinner if they are very hungry and
they are willing to eat plain food
snacking was not permitted because it
was thought that long fasts but also
regular feeding was bad for children one
thing i do want to emphasize
is that in this video i am not
exclusively eating
the meals that i am preparing so i am
snacking between meals still
and i'm making sure that i still get
vegetables and fruits in because as you
will see
vegetables are not a huge part of the
victorian child's diet they were
actually thought to be quite bad for
children
so i know that a lot of these portions
do look quite small but keep in mind
that i was eating other foods
apart from those that are shown in the
video anyway with that said let's get
on to breakfast of the first day
[Music]
okay
here is meal number one of the day which
i've got to say is the one that i've at
least
been looking forward to all of the
things i'm gonna try in this video
i could have chosen between porridge
or wheat porridge i love oat porridge i
have it loads but
wheat porridge i've never tried and the
very prospect of it just
seems really gross but i'm gonna try it
and i've got myself
a mug of cocoa because
coco was thought to have loads of
medicinal benefits and it was actually
at the beginning of the century sold
in pharmacies and used as like a kind of
a medical remedy so it was really common
for
people in all classes in society to have
cocoa increasingly at breakfast um and
at dinner so
i've got myself a mug here which is a
change from my normal tea children could
have tea
coffee or cocoa and cocoa is the number
one
it's made with half milk and half water
okay wheat porridge
it's not as bad as i thought it would be
the texture's really weird like
the recipe said to put it in a massive
clump and then
boil that in the milk and that's the bit
which is really gross like the bit with
the actual like flour which hasn't been
in that ball is so much better
it's just really chewy
this meal has really made me understand
what people mean when they say lumpy
porridge
i really think it comes from this method
of making it where you clump up the
flour
and then you dissolve that flour ball
into the milk even if porridge is thick
i've never had it where there are like
clumps
but in this there are like huge clumps
of flour which are really chewy and
absolutely disgusting
[Music]
okay we're now on to lunch and i am
really really hungry but
this is like a very meager and
weird lunch as well like steamed
cauliflower and steamed
potato which is like so boring there's a
pinch of salt because you're supposed to
add a pinch of salt to every meal
according to castles and the idea was
that if you serve children really bland
food they wouldn't
be like too greedy so loads of the food
was just so boring and bland
and it's no wonder that children didn't
like mealtimes like
this isn't food that you're excited to
eat but then to be fair there is a
pudding
which comes afterwards so every lunch
you also get a pudding
but i guess kind of like this is like
the boring bit and then you get
something more fun afterwards but this
is just
like really bland
so one thing which castles actually
recommend is
putting the plate of food on top of a
bowl of hot water to keep the plate and
the food hot
it was thought that this would
discourage children from eating too fast
there was a massive massive fear about
digestion
a huge medical ordeal like so much could
be accredited to digestion and if you
have bad digestion you could get ill
eating quickly was about was a way of
getting
indigestion and having bad digestion it
was really really important especially
with younger children
that the uh that they stopped the child
from eating too fast
so this was one tactic and one way that
they did that
they would have like a hot bowl and um
obviously that
kind of it heats up the food and it
keeps it hot it was just such a
difference to today actually
children are likely to be served
lukewarm food as opposed to
boiling hot food it really is quite
bland i must say
but there's something really nice and it
kind of it reminds me of childhood to
have
boiled potatoes just like by themselves
okay so next we've got pudding so every
lunch
time you also have a pudding i've made a
traditional rice pudding
and it's a very different recipe to what
i thought traditional
rice pudding was yeah i'm excited to try
this
i've added some jam because that was
kind of that was on the recipe saying
you could serve it with jam
that's actually so much better than any
other kind of rice filling i've made
like that is so good
[Music]
do
okay here we go final meal of the day
this is tea
and i actually found it quite hard to
find a recipe
for younger children's tea the only one
i could find in castles was for
boiled milk and bread tomorrow i'm
having milk toast
which is the more typical one that i've
heard about but this is literally just
soggy bread it's boiled
milk and bread and it looks pretty
disgusting
and then to drink mmm yum i have
bread crumbled in water we didn't have
any stale bread in which is the only
issue so you're supposed to i think have
like stale bread which crumbles better
so i've just got little lumps of bread
and
i don't want to have that i really don't
oh it's the water i just really don't
want to have
okay
that's really not too bad that's
absolutely fine that's really good
actually
i'm actually surprised at how thick the
milk is like the milk's actually really
thickened with the bread i think i might
actually
this is really great i know i might just
like try and tear this up a little bit
so i know that i'm cheating i meant to
have done all this downstairs because
the food would be completely ready by
the time it got up into the nursery
even though in the larger houses they
actually would have a little mini
nursery kitchen where the foods could be
cooked and so it would just be kind of
enough room to boil
some pans because everything was boiled
i really don't want to try this
no i can't have that oh my goodness that
is awful
i don't see why this was a thing i mean
i understand that this is a way to get
more calories into a child's diet
kind of so they're not just drinking
water they're also getting energy from
the water
so i get that i understand it but it's
also absolutely vile and i can't imagine
i just can't imagine having to drink the
whole thing
[Music]
[Applause]
so
[Music]
i am this morning going to be trying
milk toast
which i have read about so much in
convalescence help guides and
you know kind of if your child is sick
in the victorian period then you should
serve the milk toast and there is
something about kind of like bread and
milk which just sounds
so wholesome and
comforting also the idea of soggy toast
like nobody likes soggy taste that's
essentially
what this is so i'm excited to try it i
don't know if i'm gonna like it
i'm also really hungry i've got to treat
it like it's pudding as opposed to
that's actually really nice oh my
goodness like with the sugar on top as
well
it's like pudding it's like a dessert
hmm that's so good i cannot believe
that's so tasty
that and the rice pudding i mean both of
them are the really sweet ones but
i can imagine eating those normally
like is this gonna become a standard
breakfast where i have milk toast for
breakfast
oh it's just so good the middle bit is
so much better than the crust
i think it's because it just tastes less
like bread like with the crust it's
still got something of a bread
consistency so it tastes more like soggy
taste but the middle bit is
so so tasty
[Music]
so
okay so for lunch i am having a pea soup
pea soup was a really popular lunch for
children
um and just in general peace was very
popular i used frozen peas
basically you just add in any vegetables
that you have in and
you let it simmer for an hour and a half
usually you'd also add ham or some kind
of meat but
obviously i'm doing this vegan because
there isn't any salt or
any spices added i don't know how
flavorful this is going to be and if
it's
going to be tasty but let's try it also
i was snacking so i'm not actually that
hungry but
i mean it's not very flavorful but it's
also delicious like
it's really really mild very plain but
this is the kind of food i actually
really enjoy
i actually want to make this more often
also i'm just drinking some water
victorian children were discouraged from
drinking during the day so you could
only drink at meals
i always feel really ill if i don't
drink regularly i like
i get dehydrated i think really easily
so i
have been drinking but it seems really
weird that the only time you be able to
drink
is when you are eating and again i think
that was to do with digestion
[Music]
i really don't know if i'm going to like
this because i don't usually like jam
rolly polly but
we'll see
i mean i don't really know if i'm a fan
this one i'm not going to finish i
really don't like it my mom really likes
jamily polly there
i think the thing i really don't like
about it is i know because it's a boiled
pudding
it's just like so like squidgy i don't
know i just don't really like jamerrilly
pollies
okay i will see you for tea very very
soon
[Music]
okay here we go final meal of the video
this is tea um this is the one i've been
most excited for because
the one yesterday wasn't really tea like
this this is like a sweet
delicious meal and i'm very much looking
forward to it
even though this dish i'm not so sure
about this is rice
with treacle or golden syrup i don't
like golden syrup and i don't really
like rice so i don't know if i'm gonna
like this
i'm looking forward to the bread and
butter and also the coco
that's actually so good and then the
recipe said to add stewed
fruit and so i went for apples because
that's like a very archetypal
like food that you could you can find in
england pretty much anywhere
[Music]
so thank you so much for watching this
video it was one that i really enjoyed
filming
it was so fun to try out these recipes
these and particularly recipes that i've
read about so much in children's books
so i will be filming
another victorian video pretty soon
maybe in like two or three weeks
these are probably my favorite videos to
film at the moment there's so much fun
to research i love the victorian period
so much
obviously it's important that when we
are romanticizing elements of the period
which we
definitely are prone to do when we look
back um on the 19th century it's so
important to remember that like
this wasn't a romantic period and that
there were huge levels of suffering for
many many people in society
the vast majority of the victorian
public was really really struggling
and was um hugely disadvantaged by the
bourgeoisie so
it's um really important to be aware of
that whenever you're consuming any kind
of victorian
especially when you're looking into
middle or up class contacts because
they definitely don't represent the
whole of the victorian public and this
video
as you've been able to tell is very much
focused on middle class and
upper class children and their diets
anyway with that said thank you so much
for watching and
i hope that you have a productive week
[Music]
you